{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Project Format:\b0\fs22\par
\par
Research paper and website.\par
\par
\b\fs28 Introduction:\b0\fs22\par
\par
Be ABLE is a research project with the intention of sharing its results through a website and research paper. With the possibility of creating an infographic. This project seeks to define the pain points within the B.C. disability system.\par
\par
\b\fs28 Project Goals:\b0\fs22\par
\par
-data mine from government databases and from Reddit API using Python and Github.\par
-Filter and analyze this data for insights.\par
-Suggest possible actionable solutions based on these insights.\par
-Summarize our findings through a research paper and website.\par
-Cross-reference to other similar existing studies.\par
-Create a data visualization based on our data.\par
\par
\b\fs28 Methods & Strategies :\line\line\b0 Research design:\par
Retrospective cross-sectional research study design (specifically with data from government databases). The participants in this study are selected based on particular variables and are required to have attempted to use the disability system in B.C. for PWD application. Cross-sectional research studies are used to evaluate the association between an exposure (the B.C. disability system) and the outcome (user experience).\par
\par
The rationale behind choosing this method it is fast, accessible and cheap to use and multiple variables can be analyzed. A disadvantage of this research design/strategy is that it cannot be used to assess change of user experience over time. There are poorer control over confounders, the exposure and covariates as a result.\par
\par
With using data from Reddit to explore different complaints around the B.C. disability system, this can help guide us in selection of which government databases to analyze and collect data on the general digital opinions of the pain points within the B.C. disability system.\par
\par
Data visualizations for our website or a possible infographic would help the public understand the data better and help with its general knowledge dissemination.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Activities and Tasks:\b0\fs22\par
\b Data Collection:\b0\par
\par
\i Government Databases:\i0\par
\par
-Utilize available government databases related to the B.C. disability system to gather quantitative data on applications, approvals, rejections, processing times, and common reasons for denials.\par
-Access publicly available datasets from provincial and federal sources to ensure a comprehensive understanding of the system.\par
\b\par
\b0\i Reddit API:\b\i0\par
\b0\par
-Mine data from Reddit, focusing on subreddits related to disability, health, and B.C. residents. Subreddits of interest are r/Disability, r/BCDisability, r/britishcolumbia, and r/health.\par
-Extract data from posts to gather qualitative data on user experiences, complaints, and suggestions for improvement.\par
\par
\b Data Processing and Analysis:\b0\par
\par
\i Data Cleaning:\i0\par
-Clean and preprocess the data to handle missing values, duplicates, and irrelevant information.\par
-For Reddit data, use natural language processing (NLP) techniques to filter out non-relevant content and identify key themes and sentiments (Sentiment analysis as a possible technique and topic modelling).\i\par
Data Mining and Filtering:\i0\par
-Apply data mining techniques to identify patterns, trends, and correlations within the data.\par
-Use Python libraries (such as Pandas, NumPy, and Scikit-learn) for data manipulation and analysis.\par
-Implement sentiment analysis on Reddit data to gauge public opinion and identify major pain points.\par
\b\par
Analysis:\par
\b0\par
-Conduct a detailed analysis to extract insights on the inefficiencies and issues within the B.C. disability system.\par
-Cross-reference findings with similar studies and reports to validate results and identify common trends.\par
-create constructs and variables.\par
\b Data Visualization:\b0\par
Visual Tools:\par
-Use RStudio and Data Analysis Graphs (DAG) for creating various types of data visualizations, including graphs, pie charts, and heatmaps.\par
-Develop an interactive dashboard to display key metrics and insights dynamically.\par
Infographics:\par
-Design infographics to summarize and present the data in an easily understandable and visually appealing manner using Canva.\par
\b Website Development:\b0\par
Platform:\par
-Build the project website using Wix for ease of use and flexibility.\par
-Ensure the website is user-friendly, accessible, and includes interactive elements to engage visitors.\par
Content:\par
-Publish the research paper on the website, including an executive summary and detailed findings.\par
-Integrate data visualizations and infographics to enhance the presentation of results.\par
Provide a section for actionable recommendations and possible solutions based on the data analysis.\par
Cross-Referencing:\par
Review and cite similar studies to provide context and support for the research findings.\par
Highlight differences and similarities to draw comprehensive conclusions and suggest improvements.\par
 Implementation Plan:\par
\par
Phase 1: Planning and Preparation\par
    1. Assign roles to team members \par
     2. Refresh on some data science techniques via Standford's Machine Learning course via Coursera.\par
\par
Phase 2: Assemble the Team\par
\par
1. Identify and assemble the team and assign roles and responsibilities to each member.\par
\par
Phase 3: Agree on a Timeline\par
1. Schedule regular team meetings and checkpoints to monitor progress.\par
\par
Phase 2: Data Collection\par
\par
1.Reddit API:\par
-Set up access to the Reddit API and identify relevant subreddits.\par
-Develop a script to extract data from Reddit, focusing on posts and comments from chosen subreddits but are specifically related to the B.C. disability system.\par
\par
2.Government Databases:\par
-Use the data from Reddit API to guide which government databases to data mine from.\par
-Obtain necessary permissions for data access if needed.\par
-Collect and download datasets related to the B.C. disability system.\par
\par
Phase 3: Processing and Analysis\par
\par
1. Data Cleaning:\par
-clean and preprocess data to remove missing values, duplicates and irrelevant info.\par
-Apply NLP techniques\par
\par
2. Data Mining and Analysis:\par
-Use python libraries (Pandas, NumPy, and Scikit-learn) to mine and analyze data.\par
-Conduct sentiment analysis on Reddit data to get key themes and sentiments.\par
-Cross-reference with other studies.\par
\par
Phase 4: Data Visualization:\par
\par
1.Create Visualizations:\par
-Use Rstudio and DAG to create graphs, pie charts and heatmaps.\par
-Create an interactive dashboard for key metrics?\par
\par
2. Design Infographics:\par
-Design infographics to summarize findings.\par
\par
Phase 5: Website Development\par
1.Website Setup:\par
-Develop the project website using Wix\par
-Integrate with data visualizations, infographics and research paper.\par
\par
Phase 6: Review and Refinement\par
\par
1.Peer Review:\par
-Conduct a peer review of research paper and website.\par
-Incorporate feedback.\par
\par
2. Testing:\par
-test website for usability.\par
\par
Phase 7: Actionable Solutions?/Present Findings\par
\par
-Use the data to determine any actionable solutions to fuel future possible projects.\par
-Create a video talking about our work.\par
\par
\par
Milestones and Checkpoints:\par
\par
1. Planning and Preparation completed:\par
-team assembly and timeline established\par
2.Data Collection:\par
-all necessary data collected from chosen databases and Reddit API\par
3.Data Processing:\par
-data cleaned, analyzed and insights extracted.\par
4. Data Visualization:\par
-data visualizations and infographic is created.\par
5. Website Development:\par
-Website developed, content polished and reviewed.\par
\par
Potential Risks and Contingency Plans:\par
\par
Data Access Issues:\par
\par
Risk: hard to obtain access to specific government databases or the database we want needs permission.\par
Contingency plan: identify alternative data sources or use publicly available data.\par
\par
Technical Challenges:\par
\par
Risk: Technical issues with data extraction, analysis or web development.\par
Contingency plan: Recommend team members get training if needed or find alternative technical support resources.\par
\par
Timeline Delays:\par
\par
Risk: Delays in project milestones due to life circumstances.\par
Contingency Plan: Include buffer time in project timeline and prioritize important tasks. Review progress and timeline as needed.\par
\par
Data Quality issues:\par
\par
Risk: incomplete data affecting analysis.\par
Contingency Plan: Use robust imputation techniques for missing values and be thorough in data cleaning.\par
\par
Resource allocation:\par
No funding needed. Equipment: computers. \par
\par
Monitoring and Evaluation:\par
\par
KPIs: \par
1.Volume of data collected (number of records/posts/comments)\par
2.Number of identified and corrected data inconsistencies.\par
3.Percentage of data cleaned and preprocessed successfully.\par
4.Number of unique insights and patterns identified from the data.\par
5.Number of correlations or trends cross-referenced with existing studies.\par
6.Average time spent on website by visitors.\par
7.Bounce rate (percentage of visitors who leave after viewing only one page).\par
8.Percentage of milestones completed on time.\par
9.Number of team meetings held and participation rate.\par
10.Team satisfaction and collaboration score (based on end survey).\par
\par
Project Management tool: Notion or Basecamp.\par
\par
Project Timeline:\par
\par
July.29-31st: Refreshing on data science tools via Coursera's Machine Learning course.\par
August.1-5: Reddit API data extraction, analysis, filtering.\par
August.7-9: Reddit API data insights and direction for government database extraction.\par
August.12-14: Choose government databases of interest and ask for access.\par
August 15th-20: Data analysis of databases. Begin research paper (Yash).\par
August.20-22: Extract Insights, cross-reference to relevant data.\par
August.22-24: DAG, data visualization formation.\par
August.25th-28: Website formation (Steven+Diana), infographic formation(Diana).\par
August.29-September.6th: Phase 6/7\par
\par
Conclusion:\par
\par
This project will follow data from three different avenues, while taking a health science research approach while combining a retrospective cross-sectional study design with a social media study for direction. Results will be showcased via a website, infographic and through various data visualizations. The expected outcome is to find an actionable pain-point within the B.C. disability system. The B.C. disability system and its distribution of the PWD status greatly impacts the lives of many vulnerable patients in B.C.. Because this population tends to have less resources than others in B.C., it is important to refine the B.C. Disability system for optimal functioning and ultimately, best patient outcomes.\par
\par
}
 